README.md, before:

# corporateZ
Data analysis done on Ministry of Corporate Affairs **( M.C.A. )**, Govt. of India's open data to get deeper insight, with :heart:

## Data Source
All data upon which following analysis work will be done, is collected from [here](https://data.gov.in/).

Dataset upon which I'm working, was last updated on _21-04-2018_ ( as mentioned on Open Data Portal of India ).

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _Uttarakhand_
### Status of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies regsitered in Uttarakhand, India.
- Active ( 70.6806% )
- Strike Off ( 23.5166% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 5.0320% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.2182% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.1745% )
- Converted to LLP ( 0.1600% )
- Amalgamated ( 0.0873% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0436% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0436% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.0436% )

![status_of_companies_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Private ( 90.4159% )
- Public ( 7.6062% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 1.9197% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.5492% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.3200% )
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0727% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.3892% )
- State Govt company ( 0.3636% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.1163% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0582% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.0145% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Business Services ( 30.6283% )
- Trading ( 11.2129% )
- Construction ( 9.5550% )
- Community, personal & Social Services ( 8.1152% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals, and products thereof) ( 7.7952% )
- Finance ( 5.2792% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 5.2356% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 4.7120% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 4.2467% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 4.0867% )
- Transport, storage and Communications ( 2.2688% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products, Publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.7016% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 1.3816% )
- Electricity, Gas & Water companies ( 1.0908% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 1.0908% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.9017% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.4072% )
- Others ( 0.1018% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.0873% )
- Insurance ( 0.0582% )
- OTHERS ( 0.0436% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in Uttarakhand
Companies registered in Uttarakhand gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _Uttar Pradesh_
### Status of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies regsitered in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Active ( 75.9273% )
- Strike Off ( 21.6220% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 1.2637% )
- Amalgamated ( 0.3314% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.2302% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.2163% )
- Converted to LLP ( 0.1993% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.1151% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0586% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0192% )
- Dissolved ( 0.0085% )
- Active In Progress ( 0.0053% )
- Captured ( 0.0032% )

![status_of_companies_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Private ( 89.2029% )
- Public ( 8.9186% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 1.8583% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.7464% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.1961% )
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0373% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.6228% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.1737% )
- State Govt company ( 0.1417% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0234% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.0181% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Business Services ( 29.4345% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 10.2782% )
- Construction ( 10.1930% )
- Trading ( 8.4146% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals, and products thereof) ( 7.6442% )
- Community, personal & Social Services ( 6.9910% )
- Finance ( 6.5989% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 4.5957% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 3.2051% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 3.1892% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 2.0533% )
- Transport, storage and Communications ( 1.8114% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products, Publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.7315% )
- Others ( 0.8194% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.7672% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 0.7128% )
- Electricity, Gas & Water companies ( 0.5679% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.5061% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.2952% )
- Insurance ( 0.1428% )
- OTHERS ( 0.0479% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in Uttar Pradesh
Companies registered in Uttar Pradesh gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _West Bengal_
### Status of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies in West Bengal, India.
- Active ( 68.2958% )
- Strike Off ( 24.2760% )
- Amalgamated ( 2.6358% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 2.2453% )
- Converted to LLP ( 1.0173% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.4340% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.3424% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.3374% )
- Dissolved ( 0.3174% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0846% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0125% )
- Active In Progress ( 0.0010% )
- Captured ( 0.0005% )

![status_of_companies_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Private ( 90.1093% )
- Public ( 9.5868% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 0.2949% )
- NA ( 0.0085% )
- PRIVATE ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.6511% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.3239% 
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0155% )
- NA ( 0.0090% )
- COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.7502% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.1126% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.0616% )
- State Govt company ( 0.0436% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0225% )
- NA ( 0.0090% )
- NON-GOVT COMPANY ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Trading ( 33.91% )
- Business Services ( 16.26% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 10.65% )
- Construction ( 7.75% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals and products thereof) ( 6.75% )
- Finance ( 5.52% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 3.12% )
- Community personal & Social Services ( 2.93% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 2.46% )
- Transport storage and Communications ( 2.35% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 2.33% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 2.17% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products Publishing printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.12% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.70% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 0.62% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.41% )
- Electricity Gas & Water companies ( 0.37% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.28% )
- Insurance ( 0.07% )
- OTHERS ( 0.06% )
- Others ( 0.05% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in West Bengal
Companies registered in West Bengal gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Status of Companies all over India
Below is a list of company statuses, which show percentage of its presence in different state(s) in form of BAR chart _( as of 21-04-2018 )_
### Active
![active_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_active_companies.png)
### Strike Off
![strike_off_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_strike_off_companies.png)
### Under Process of Striking Off
![under_process_of_striking_off_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_under_process_of_striking_off_companies.png)
### Not Available for e-Filing
![not_available_for_efiling_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_not_available_for_efiling_companies.png)
### Amalgamated
![amalgamated_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_amalgamated_companies.png)
### Under Liquidation
![under_liquidation_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_under_liquidation_companies.png)

## Email Service(s) used by Companies in India
Following PIE chart tries to pictorially depict, which email service provider(s) are in use at which percentage by **1407239**
companies _( for which we had Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Govt. of India open data regarding all companies registered in various states of India )_ spread across several parts of India.

For keeping things simple, I extracted top 10 email service provider(s) being used by Companies & generated a PIE chart for them, showing their percentage of usage.

![email_service_used_by_companies_in_India](./plots/mca_email_service_used_by_companies.png)

## Companies Registered under various RoC(s)
Here I tried to extract how many companies are registered under which RoC _( Registrar of Companies )_ 
and plotted that into BAR chart

Currently our dataset is having **27 RoCs** across India. Percentage of companies registered across these RoCs is as follows

- RoC-Delhi ( 20.4109% )
- RoC-Mumbai ( 16.3580% )
- RoC-Kolkata ( 11.2028% )
- RoC-Hyderabad ( 7.1035% )
- RoC-Chennai ( 6.2814% )
- RoC-Bangalore ( 5.9830% )
- RoC-Ahmedabad ( 5.4137% )
- RoC-Kanpur ( 5.2838% )
- RoC-Pune ( 3.5978% )
- RoC-Jaipur ( 3.0764% )
- ROC-Ernakulam ( 2.6974% )
- RoC-Chandigarh ( 2.4802% )
- RoC-Gwalior ( 2.0502% )
- RoC-Patna ( 1.6143% )
- RoC-Coimbatore ( 1.4225% )
- RoC-Cuttack ( 1.3115% )
- RoC-Shillong ( 0.8016% )
- RoC-Jharkhand ( 0.7005% )
- RoC-Chhattisgarh ( 0.5282% )
- RoC-Goa ( 0.4871% )
- RoC-Uttarakhand ( 0.3875% )
- RoC-Himachal Pradesh ( 0.3281% )
- RoC-Jammu ( 0.2914% )
- RoC-Pondicherry ( 0.1822% )
- RCAND ( 0.0058% )
- RCDMM ( 0.0004% )
- RCSRI ( 0.0001% )

![companies_registered_under_various_RoC(s)](./plots/mca_company_registration_under_roc.png)

**More to come ...** :wink:

Commit message:

generated diagram showing "rate of registration of companies around the years, across all states of India"

README.md, after:

# corporateZ
Data analysis done on Ministry of Corporate Affairs **( M.C.A. )**, Govt. of India's open data to get deeper insight, with :heart:

## Data Source
All data upon which following analysis work will be done, is collected from [here](https://data.gov.in/).

Dataset upon which I'm working, was last updated on _21-04-2018_ ( as mentioned on Open Data Portal of India ).

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _Uttarakhand_
### Status of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies regsitered in Uttarakhand, India.
- Active ( 70.6806% )
- Strike Off ( 23.5166% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 5.0320% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.2182% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.1745% )
- Converted to LLP ( 0.1600% )
- Amalgamated ( 0.0873% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0436% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0436% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.0436% )

![status_of_companies_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Private ( 90.4159% )
- Public ( 7.6062% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 1.9197% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.5492% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.3200% )
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0727% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.3892% )
- State Govt company ( 0.3636% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.1163% )
- NA ( 0.0582% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0582% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.0145% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in Uttarakhand
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttarakhand, India.
- Business Services ( 30.6283% )
- Trading ( 11.2129% )
- Construction ( 9.5550% )
- Community, personal & Social Services ( 8.1152% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals, and products thereof) ( 7.7952% )
- Finance ( 5.2792% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 5.2356% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 4.7120% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 4.2467% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 4.0867% )
- Transport, storage and Communications ( 2.2688% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products, Publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.7016% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 1.3816% )
- Electricity, Gas & Water companies ( 1.0908% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 1.0908% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.9017% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.4072% )
- Others ( 0.1018% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.0873% )
- Insurance ( 0.0582% )
- OTHERS ( 0.0436% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in Uttarakhand
Companies registered in Uttarakhand gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_uttarakhand](plots/mca_uttarakhand_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _Uttar Pradesh_
### Status of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies regsitered in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Active ( 75.9273% )
- Strike Off ( 21.6220% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 1.2637% )
- Amalgamated ( 0.3314% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.2302% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.2163% )
- Converted to LLP ( 0.1993% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.1151% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0586% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0192% )
- Dissolved ( 0.0085% )
- Active In Progress ( 0.0053% )
- Captured ( 0.0032% )

![status_of_companies_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Private ( 89.2029% )
- Public ( 8.9186% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 1.8583% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.7464% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.1961% )
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0373% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.6228% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.1737% )
- State Govt company ( 0.1417% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0234% )
- NA ( 0.0202% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.0181% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in Uttar Pradesh
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in Uttar Pradesh, India.
- Business Services ( 29.4345% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 10.2782% )
- Construction ( 10.1930% )
- Trading ( 8.4146% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals, and products thereof) ( 7.6442% )
- Community, personal & Social Services ( 6.9910% )
- Finance ( 6.5989% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 4.5957% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 3.2051% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 3.1892% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 2.0533% )
- Transport, storage and Communications ( 1.8114% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products, Publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.7315% )
- Others ( 0.8194% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.7672% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 0.7128% )
- Electricity, Gas & Water companies ( 0.5679% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.5061% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.2952% )
- Insurance ( 0.1428% )
- OTHERS ( 0.0479% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in Uttar Pradesh
Companies registered in Uttar Pradesh gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_uttar_pradesh](plots/mca_uttarpradesh_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Analysis of M.C.A. Data for _West Bengal_
### Status of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows an overview of STATUS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_ of various companies in West Bengal, India.
- Active ( 68.2958% )
- Strike Off ( 24.2760% )
- Amalgamated ( 2.6358% )
- Under Process of Striking off ( 2.2453% )
- Converted to LLP ( 1.0173% )
- Converted to LLP and dissolved ( 0.4340% )
- Under liquidation ( 0.3424% )
- Not Available for eFiling ( 0.3374% )
- Dissolved ( 0.3174% )
- Dormant under section 455 ( 0.0846% )
- Liquidated ( 0.0125% )
- Active In Progress ( 0.0010% )
- Captured ( 0.0005% )

![status_of_companies_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_status.png)

---
### Class of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CLASS _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Private ( 90.1093% )
- Public ( 9.5868% )
- Private(One Person Company) ( 0.2949% )
- NA ( 0.0085% )
- PRIVATE ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_class_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_class.png)

---
### Category of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Company limited by Shares ( 99.6511% )
- Company Limited by Guarantee ( 0.3239% 
- Unlimited Company ( 0.0155% )
- NA ( 0.0090% )
- COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_category_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_category.png)

---
### Sub-Category of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their SUB_CATEGORY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Non-govt company ( 99.7502% )
- Guarantee and Association comp ( 0.1126% )
- Subsidiary of Foreign Company ( 0.0616% )
- State Govt company ( 0.0436% )
- Union Govt company ( 0.0225% )
- NA ( 0.0090% )
- NON-GOVT COMPANY ( 0.0005% )

![companies_categorized_by_subCategory_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_subCategory.png)

---
### Principal Business Activity of Companies in West Bengal
Following PIE chart shows various companies categorized by their PRINCIPAL_BUSINESS_ACTIVITY _( as of 21-04-2018 )_, present in West Bengal, India.
- Trading ( 33.91% )
- Business Services ( 16.26% )
- Real Estate and Renting ( 10.65% )
- Construction ( 7.75% )
- Manufacturing (Metals & Chemicals and products thereof) ( 6.75% )
- Finance ( 5.52% )
- Manufacturing (Machinery & Equipments) ( 3.12% )
- Community personal & Social Services ( 2.93% )
- Agriculture and Allied Activities ( 2.46% )
- Transport storage and Communications ( 2.35% )
- Manufacturing (Food stuffs) ( 2.33% )
- Manufacturing (Textiles) ( 2.17% )
- Manufacturing (Paper & Paper products Publishing printing and reproduction of recorded media) ( 1.12% )
- Mining & Quarrying ( 0.70% )
- Manufacturing (Others) ( 0.62% )
- Manufacturing (Leather & products thereof) ( 0.41% )
- Electricity Gas & Water companies ( 0.37% )
- Manufacturing (Wood Products) ( 0.28% )
- Insurance ( 0.07% )
- OTHERS ( 0.06% )
- Others ( 0.05% )

![companies_categorized_by_principalBusinessActivity_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_principalBusinessActivity.png)

---
### Registration of Companies by Year in West Bengal
Companies registered in West Bengal gets categorized by Year of Registration, which is plotted as year of registration vs. #-of companies registered in that certain year _( while filtering out those companies which didn't had any date of registration data )_.

![registration_of_companies_yearly_in_west_bengal](plots/mca_westbengal_21042018_company_dateOfRegistration.png)

---

## Status of Companies all over India
Below is a list of company statuses, which show percentage of its presence in different state(s) in form of BAR chart _( as of 21-04-2018 )_
### Active
![active_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_active_companies.png)
### Strike Off
![strike_off_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_strike_off_companies.png)
### Under Process of Striking Off
![under_process_of_striking_off_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_under_process_of_striking_off_companies.png)
### Not Available for e-Filing
![not_available_for_efiling_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_not_available_for_efiling_companies.png)
### Amalgamated
![amalgamated_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_amalgamated_companies.png)
### Under Liquidation
![under_liquidation_companies_all_over_India](allCompanyStatusPlots/mca_all_under_liquidation_companies.png)

## Email Service(s) used by Companies in India
Following PIE chart tries to pictorially depict, which email service provider(s) are in use at which percentage by **1407239**
companies _( for which we had Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Govt. of India open data regarding all companies registered in various states of India )_ spread across several parts of India.

For keeping things simple, I extracted top 10 email service provider(s) being used by Companies & generated a PIE chart for them, showing their percentage of usage.

![email_service_used_by_companies_in_India](./plots/mca_email_service_used_by_companies.png)

## Companies Registered under various RoC(s)
Here I tried to extract how many companies are registered under which RoC _( Registrar of Companies )_ 
and plotted that into BAR chart

Currently our dataset is having **27 RoCs** across India. Percentage of companies registered across these RoCs is as follows

- RoC-Delhi ( 20.4109% )
- RoC-Mumbai ( 16.3580% )
- RoC-Kolkata ( 11.2028% )
- RoC-Hyderabad ( 7.1035% )
- RoC-Chennai ( 6.2814% )
- RoC-Bangalore ( 5.9830% )
- RoC-Ahmedabad ( 5.4137% )
- RoC-Kanpur ( 5.2838% )
- RoC-Pune ( 3.5978% )
- RoC-Jaipur ( 3.0764% )
- ROC-Ernakulam ( 2.6974% )
- RoC-Chandigarh ( 2.4802% )
- RoC-Gwalior ( 2.0502% )
- RoC-Patna ( 1.6143% )
- RoC-Coimbatore ( 1.4225% )
- RoC-Cuttack ( 1.3115% )
- RoC-Shillong ( 0.8016% )
- RoC-Jharkhand ( 0.7005% )
- RoC-Chhattisgarh ( 0.5282% )
- RoC-Goa ( 0.4871% )
- RoC-Uttarakhand ( 0.3875% )
- RoC-Himachal Pradesh ( 0.3281% )
- RoC-Jammu ( 0.2914% )
- RoC-Pondicherry ( 0.1822% )
- RCAND ( 0.0058% )
- RCDMM ( 0.0004% )
- RCSRI ( 0.0001% )

![companies_registered_under_various_RoC(s)](./plots/mca_company_registration_under_roc.png)

## Registration of Companies around Years ( all over India )
Following diagram shows, rate of companies being registered over the years _( starting from 1900 )_ across different states of India
![registration_of_companies_around_years_across_different_states_India](./plots/registration_of_companies_around_years_all_india.png)

**More to come ...** :wink:
